Hello, everyone.
So we have successfully created functions for adding songs, finding songs and adding songs to the playlist.
And now we are going to use those created functions inside our main Java class.
So inside the main class we have created like two albums, album one and album to name for the first
album is album one and name for the second album is album two.
These are two random artists and these are some random songs that I might be adding to the music library.
So yes, now this album is not an album is used to add songs to the album now so that we have created
and add a list for adding songs in the album.
Now we are using linked list for adding songs to the playlist.
Like we have created this in songs class.
We like the album class.
Yes.
So we have created a linked list.
And I explained you the consequence of using linked list, like it has a pointer to the previous element
and the next element.
So the songs are connected to the previous track and the next track.
A current song may navigate to the previous track and the current track.
We navigate through the next track like we can navigate between the songs now.
After that, we have created the playlist and added songs to the playlist using album Dot Get and the
name of the playlist is Playlist one.
So let me call this playlist method using this play list slash one.
Yes, this is the way of calling.
Now so that we have created this.
We have to create a place function.
So for creating the play function, we are going to use private, static, void and play.
The name of the function is play.
We have already created a mean function.
Now we are creating a play function.
So the arguments inside the function is song like the playlist in the format of link list and the name
of the linked list is playlist.
So perfect.
We have created this function for playing the songs in the playlist.
Now we have to scan.
I hope that you are aware about the scanner function inside Java like it is also a concept involved
in the basics.
Java like basics of Java and scanner is used to scan like take some input from the user and according
to that input it gives output to the user in the compiler like, like the running frame where the program
is running.
But then it may be the terminal or the separate window.
So scanner is going to work in that way now so that we have implemented the scanner.
Firstly, we have to import this scanner using Java util dot scanner and it is done so to use the scanner.
Firstly, we have to import the scanner using the java util package.
Similarly for the list iterator, we are iterating through the linked list, so we have to import that
also.
So we have imported the scanner, we have imported the list editor and now we are good to go.
So moving forward.
So now that we have inputted the value from the user, now after scanning the value like we have several
options, we can see that we have 0123456 options from which user has to select one of them.
And after scanning that, the word value is inputted.
Now we will perform several tasks like firstly, if we like, if we are importing zero, then it is
supported.
So if it is initialized as false, like by default, it will not be created like it will remain in the
terminal window and this will remain open.
So by default that is no quit.
So it is initialize false.
Similarly for forward it is initialized as true for by default list iterator is going to iterate through
the list of songs and then if playlist size is zero, then system is going to print like this string.
And the string says that this playlist have no song, so this playlist has no song.
So yes, if there are no songs in the playlist, then obviously nothing is going to be outputted in
that terminal.
It will obviously print that there are no songs in the playlist, of course.
Else if there are any songs present in the playlist, then this is going to print now playing as a string
and the object is saying that list iterator dot next to string so I can explain this here.
So this now playing song and the title and the duration, we are using those string to convert the double
data type of the duration in the form of a string.
So now playing is already a string and so that we have converted everything to a string using this two
string method in Java.
So this is going to print the menu.
So after this it is going to print what is going to happen next.
And we are going to make the print menu function later.
Firstly, we have covered this play method like play function successfully.
Now let's see what is the next part we have to cover?
So after this inserting like suppose if user not quit so not quit is equal like written as the exclamation
mark and the exclamation mark signifies not.
This is also one of the basic concepts of Java and we call this exclamation mark as not operator.
We saw and operated already, which was a logical operator.
Now we are coming across this note operator, which is a logical operator as well.
So scanner is going to scan the integer and then.
Oh.
Bracket after which.
The scanner is going to be written as exit or next line.
So next line.
Perfect.
So now suppose that we have selected any key, like, any options.
Now what should be done next?
Like, what are the consequences of pressing any key, selecting any options?
So suppose that user has selected zero.
So what is going to happen if user selects zero?
So the program will be quit and the random thing will stop executing and you will be out of the program
running portion.
Now suppose what if the user presses one?
So we have to switch to the next song if the user presses one.
Similarly, for case two, we have to like replay the song which is currently playing, so we have to
write some simple functions in order to do so.
Now if the user presses option three, so yes, we have done with option three.
Now.
Yes.
So in four, we have to simply print the playlist.
No, nothing more is required an option for.
And again in five we have to simply print the menu.
Again, we have a print menu function already created.
So like we are going to create the print menu function and simply on pressing the shift option, the
menu will again going to be printed in the terminal window.
And the last but not the least, we are going to delete the current song.
So for deleting the current song we simply have to check and if end ls condition and if the playlist
size is greater than zero, then we have to simply use a remove keyboard which is going to iterate through
the list and simply remove the currently playing song and it will link the current song to the song
like Remove the current song and connect the previous song to the next song.
Like we have three things up present song like current song, a previous song.
Suppose that this is previous song, this is current song and this is the next song.
So if we are playing this second one and we delete it now, what is going to happen in the link list?
So the link between this and this and this and this will be broken.
So we have to connect that in order to continue the process.
So we will connect the state and memories together and rest will remain same.
Just the link between stand peaches and peaches and memory will be broken and everything will remain
set.
No more changes will be required and we will see that.
So we are going to create a switch type of statement.
We have already talked about it like switch case statement.
The program does this in the switch and if any exception arise, then it will break through the case
and jump to the next case.
So we will see that.